---
layout: single
title:  "A Simple Thought"
date:   2025-12-03 22:12:00 +0700
categories: blogpost 
---

<!-- school, work -->
When I was child, I used to think that grown up is a good thing.  A few years later, I realize that I was wrong. There are various things one must do when he or she is already a grown up. They have to do the things regardless what they want or else some consequences must be face. These are side of story from my experiences. The terms revolve around working, studying, playing, etc.

I did experienced a lot of changes by going to school. While most of them were not a fond memories, a few of them is enough to make me wants to go to school again. Initially, I went to school just to not get bored, and every parents in the world must have sent their child to school if they see it fit. Depending on the teacher who runs the class and the subject study, learners can definetely agree or disagree with the ideas of sitting in a class for around 10 hours from monday to saturday, so am I. Later, I found that learning in class is somewhat to force you to learn some basic skills with structured lesson plan. This is agreeable for beginners, but when someone has reached another level of understanding, sitting in a class becomes useless. The more accurate ways were self-learning which need the understanding of basic or initial concept beforehand.

The second part should be given to work. When someone needs money, he or she will look for a job. They were looking for a job that fits their need based on its salary, security, environment, etc. Therefore, they can also experience growth beside working for the company. However, in today's economy, looking for a job was not an easy task, especially for youngsters or fresh gratuates. The gap between industrial need and academic result were large that the cost to cover employee's education cannot be covered by the company. The easy way out is just to recruit someone with experience which not surprisingly unavailable on fresh graduate. Moreover, this particular debate was creating sparks in academician. While some believe that schools should let student study what they want, others think that student should be assigned to a specific role that needed by the industry

With the involvement of AI in today's society, new jobs should exist in order to help humanity, but in reality the job was never exist. AI developers currently being seek today as a resource to build another AI application that help companies reduce the number of employee to cut money expenses. This trend seems to be a popular one this days. The pattern is just the same and lay off will always happens no matter how good you are. This enlarges gap between rich and poor which will lead to massive poverty in the future year. The companies also don't do anything new with AI because their training and computation power is limited. The mojority models currently available today were fine-tuned model which come from the pretrained model from huge companies such as meta, google, qwen, nvidia, deepseek, etc. All of them are the leader of the AI industry which create a pseudoleadership among this company which ultimately create a dependency each time. The exception goes to this company called deepseek with its powerful model while onle using a fraction of OpenAI computation cost. This sparks a new possibility in the future that enable people to create their own model form scratch. While the appeal of this technology remain unclear, there is one certain aspect of this particularly interesting subject will be a huge concern even among those big shots which is the hardware.

hardware talks -> what kind of hardwares need by the companies to run AI model even finetuned if necessary. -> huge concern over the cost of hardware in the future -> what might be the opportunity for workers -> what steps can reduce the price of hardware in the future